[Music]
traveling is something most of us really
look forward to
however our expectations don't always
match reality we discover rooms that
only look good in Photoshop spectres
online unappetizing breakfasts and
surprising extra charges we asked the
hotel staff member to share some of the
secrets guests aren't supposed to know
now let's find out how to get the most
out of a hotel experience for as little
money as possible before you start
filling your head with essential travel
knowledge take a moment to subscribe to
our channel turn on post notifications
to keep up with us how to get the best
deals on hotels one before booking a
room in the hotel of your choice compare
prices on different booking sites
special apps like trivago will help you
find the best deal booking systems often
offer lower prices for accommodation
than those published on a hotel's
website
what's more web sites like booking com
offer extra discounts to travelers who
regularly book hotels with them too once
you've found a good deal you can call
the hotel and tell them you're ready to
pay a certain price for the room you
found online
the booking manager will usually agree
and give you a room at this price why
it's in the hotel's best interest to
have guests booked rooms directly with
them not through booking systems to
avoid paying the 10 to 20 percent
commission
three as you've been to a specific hotel
before let them know they appreciate
guests who make the hotel their favorite
and greet them with champagne and the
red carpet okay maybe there won't be
champagne on a red carpet but they do
love frequent guests and offer them
discount cards and additional bonuses
before you may not know this next fact
because it's not widely advertised for
those times when you only need a hotel
room to get a few hours sleep have a
quick rest during the day or take a
shower you don't have to make a full
day's reservation in some cases twelve
hours is enough you won't find such
deals on booking sites so ask the hotel
directly for a half-day option important
details one if you want to access your
room early or leave after they given
checkout time be sure to ask whether
it's possible in advance as much as the
hotel staff is ready for everything
sometimes it's physically impossible to
give you a room in a fully booked hotel
three hours before check-in normally
that time is 11 a.m. or later
up until this hour there will be other
guests in the room when it's time for
you to leave your room is technically
considered vacant after the checkout
time so if you need it earlier or want
to stay longer let the front desk
advance you might have to pay extra for
that time is money you know - another
thing you shouldn't keep secret is the
number of guests that will be staying in
your room you might think that an extra
guest makes no difference but believe us
they do the hotel can provide an extra
bed or cot for little guests without a
problem but you should let them know
that you need it before you arrive and
if your plan suddenly change and you go
from a solo to a duet be prepared to pay
for that extra guests 3
don't forget your ID if you're traveling
abroad you'll most likely need your
passport to check-in in countries
requiring a visa to get in they'll also
look at the expiration date it's a good
idea to have your reservation
confirmation print it out and at hand if
you're traveling within the US it won't
to have a photo ID on you since
different states have different
legislation regarding this matter kids
under 18 will also need a written
authorization statement from their
parents and photocopies of their IDs to
check in successfully normally a credit
card and driver's license will suffice
but it's better to be safe than sorry
you don't want to camp outside the hotel
because you had no ID do you for if that
camp outside the hotel prospect sounds
less than appealing to you and you can't
rule out a situation where you forget
your ID listen up sometimes calling your
family and asking them to photograph the
necessary documents might help you out
especially if you've stayed at the hotel
before loyal and slightly absent-minded
customers are still appreciated however
it's unlikely to work abroad so be sure
to pack all of your papers
extra services one if you're celebrating
your birthday while staying at a hotel
or you're on your honeymoon don't forget
to let them know they might decorate the
room and present you with small gifts
they might even give you some nice
services for free how about a birthday
spa treatment we wouldn't say no too bad
to find out what kind of entertainment
facilities the hotel has we recommend
using the services of the pool sauna gym
children's playroom and so on in the
morning they're less likely to be
crowded and they'll be cheaper before
lunchtime unless they're free anyway 3
some hotel services are free of charge
you can ask them to be your personal
alarm clock order a taxi or reserve a
table in a restaurant the receptionist
can give you the necessary information
about the city recommend things to do
and places to see and tell you about
excursions for hotels often provide free
of charge items such as a heater fan
kettle iron phone charger sewing kit
umbrella and so on however these things
are more common for expensive hotels if
you're staying at a little Inn for very
little money don't get too upset with
them if they can't provide you with a
blender or iron check with them in
advance about what they do have for you
5 if you need an extra blanket pillow or
towel do not hesitate to ask for it all
hotels have plenty of that stuff and
we'll gladly help you get more comfy in
your room if those are the items that
you need 6 not all hotels allow pets but
it's possible in many places as long as
you leave a cash deposit when checking
in you might know that fluffy is the
best behaved dog in the world they don't
have that knowledge and will need a
deposit in case he decides to ruin their
beautiful interiors upon checkout the
maid will take a look at the room to see
if anything has been scratched or chewed
if everything's ok the deposit will be
returned to the owner
[Music]
meals won in many hotels breakfast is
included in the room price if you prefer
to bring your own be sure to choose the
fare without breakfast as it will be
cheaper for you to before you choose to
include meals at the hotel in your stay
read the reviews on the Internet
regarding just that in large hotels food
usually meets certain standards but that
isn't always true for smaller private
being B's you might be offered a small
snack plate instead of the awesome
buffet breakfast advertised online so
not all hotels have a children's or
vegetarian menu so if you absolutely
need one of those ask in advance three
if you've paid for breakfast but 10 a.m.
is too early to be getting out of bed
ask for a lunchbox the same goes for
those cases when you rush into the
airport for a work meeting and simply
don't have time for your morning eggs
and bacon inform the hotel staff that
you'll need breakfast to go room
cleanliness standards one each hotel
sets its own rules for room cleanliness
which must be strictly observed however
there are also generally accepted
sanitary and hygienic standards which
most hotels try to follow to some guests
are worried that the maids don't always
change the linens after previous tenants
we can assure you that this is more of a
scary myth than reality because it's
simply unacceptable however if that
happened you should immediately inform
the manager because this is a very
serious violation 3 it is generally
accepted that for the duration of your
stay
your room is cleaned every day the maids
try to clean rooms while the guests are
out if you are in the room that maid
will knock and ask if now is a good time
to clean it if you hang a Do Not Disturb
sign on your door no one will come in
logical enough for you'll have to pay
extra for additional cleaning and lawn
five guests get new bed linen and towels
throughout their stay at least once
every three to five days this rule works
at two and three-star hotels at four and
five-star hotels you can request fresh
linens and towels every day do you know
and use any of these tricks maybe you
have some of your own tell us in the
comments below don't forget to give us a
like and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]